the book of Zephaniah
the word of the Lord which came to
Zephaniah the son of coucher the son of
Gera laia the son of a Mariah the son of
Hezekiah in the days of Josiah the son
of Ammon king of Judah
I will utterly consume everything from
the face of the land says the Lord I
will consume man and beast I will
consume the birds of the heavens the
fish of the sea and the stumbling blocks
along with the wicked I will cut off man
from the face of the land says the Lord
I will stretch out my hand against Judah
and against all the inhabitants of
Jerusalem I will cut off every trace of
bail from this place the names of the
idolatrous priests with the pagan
priests those who worship the host of
heaven on the house tops those who
worship and swear oaths by the Lord but
who also swear by Milka those who have
turned back from following the Lord and
have not sought the Lord nor inquired of
him be silent in the presence of the
Lord God for the day of the Lord is at
hand for the Lord has prepared a
sacrifice he has invited his guests and
it shall be in the day of the Lord
sacrifices that I will punish the
princes and the Kings children and all
such as are clothed with foreign power
in the same day
punish all those who leapt over the
threshold who fill their masters houses
with violence and deceit and there shall
be on that day says the Lord the sound
of a mournful cry from the fish gate a
wailing from the second quarter and a
loud crashing from the hills wail you
inhabitants of Mukesh for all the
merchants people are cut down all those
who handle money are cut off and it
shall come to pass at that time that I
will search Jerusalem with lamps and
punish the men who are settled in
complacency and say in their heart the
Lord will not do good nor will he do
evil therefore their goods shall become
booty and their houses a desolation they
shall build houses but not inhabitant
they shall plant vineyards but not drink
their one the great day of the Lord is
near it is near and hastens quickly the
noise of the day of the Lord is bitter
there the mighty men shall cry out that
day is a day of wrath a day of trouble
and distress a day of devastation and
desolation a day of darkness and
gloominess a day of clouds and thick
darkness a day of trumpet and alarm
against the fortified cities and against
the high towers
I will bring distress upon men and they
shall walk like blind men because they
have sinned against the law their blood
shall be poured out like dust and their
flesh like a refuse
neither their silver nor their gold
shall be able to deliver them in the day
of the Lord's wrath but the whole land
shall be devoured by the fire of his
jealousy for he will make speedy
riddance of all those who dwell in the
land
[Music]